Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab. This is a free,
complete course for the CCNA. If you like these
videos, please subscribe to follow along with the
series. Also, please like and leave a comment,
and share the video to help spread this
free series of videos. Thanks for your help.
In this video we will continue our
studies of IPv6. As a reminder,
these are the specific exam topics relevant to
IPv6. In today’s video, we will focus on 1.9,
learning about various IPv6 address types. In Day
31 I briefly introduced Global unicast and Link
local IPv6 addresses, but this time let’s go more
in depth and also learn about the other types.
Here’s what we’ll cover. First up, we’ll
continue with the topic of IPv6 address
configuration. I’ll show you one more way to
configure an IPv6 address on an interface,
specifically using something called ‘modified
EUI-64’, which if you were looking carefully
you might have noticed is exam topic 1.9.f.
Next I’ll go into the other IPv6 address types.
Global unicast, unique local, link
local, multicast, and some others.
This is going to be a very information-dense
video, but it’s all important information so
take your time, use the flashcards, and make sure
you know the topics in this video. As always, make
sure to watch until the end of the video for a
bonus practice question from Boson ExSim for CCNA.
ExSim, made by Boson Software, is the best and
most accurate set of practice exams out there.
In my experience they simulate the style
and difficulty of the real CCNA and CCNP
exams very well. If you want to check out Boson
ExSim, follow the link in the video description.
Let’s get right into the topic. First up is
configuring IPv6 addresses using a method
called EUI-64. EUI stands for Extended Unique
Identifier. When using this concept in IPv6,
the technically correct term is ‘modified’ EUI-64,
but usually it’s just referred to as EUI-64.
This topic can actually go quite deep and it’s
really not necessary to know all the details
for the CCNA, so just be aware that you
might hear the name ‘modified EUI-64’
or just ‘EUI-64’. For our purpose, they are the
same. EUI-64 is a method of converting a 48-bit
MAC address into a 64-bit interface identifier,
and this interface identifier can then become
the ‘host portion’ of a /64 IPv6 address.
An IPv6 address, as you know, is 128 bits,
so /64 means 64 bits are the network portion
and 64 bits are the host portion of the address.
Let’s walk through how to convert the MAC
address to the EUI-64 interface identifier.
When you actually configure this on the
router, this will be done automatically,
but you should know how to do it. The first step
is to divide the MAC address, the MAC address of
the interface, in half. For example, if the MAC
address is 1234 5678 90AB, the middle is here
in between 6 and 7. Now we have the two halves
of the MAC address. The next step is to insert
hexadecimal FFFE in the middle. So, in between
6 and 7 insert FFFE. Now there’s one more step.
Invert the 7th bit. If the 7th bit is a 0, make
it a 1. If the 7th bit is a 1, make it a 0.
This is trickier than the first two steps, but
after Day 31’s video you should feel comfortable
working with hexadecimal and binary. So, where
is the 7th bit in this modified MAC address?
It’s the 3rd bit of this ‘2’. Remember,
each hexadecimal digit is 4 bits,
so the ‘1’ is bits 1, 2, 3, and 4. Then the
‘2’ is bits 5, 6, 7, and 8. So, this bit here,
the 3rd bit of the hexadecimal 2, is the
7th bit. It’s a 1, so I converted it to 0.
Convert it back to hexadecimal, and now the
process is complete. This is the interface ID, and
it’s 64 bits. It will simply be added on to the
network prefix to make the complete IPv6 address.
Before I move on to explain more, here are a few
practice questions. Convert each MAC address to
an EUI-64 interface identifier. Remember the three
steps. 1, split the MAC address in half. 2, insert
FFFE in the middle. And 3, invert the 7th bit.
Pause the video now to convert the MAC addresses.
Okay, here are the answers. If
you want some more practice,
try writing out some random MAC addresses
and finding the EUI-64 interface identifier.
Here’s how to configure an interface using EUI-64.
First on G0/0, I used the command IPV6 ADDRESS,
followed by the network prefix,
2001:DB8::/64, and then finally EUI-64.
That’s it. That tells the router to use this
prefix plus the EUI-64 interface identifier
to generate an IPv6 address.
I also did the same on G0/1
and G0/2. So, let’s check the actual
IPv6 addresses that were configured.
First up, I used SHOW INTERFACES to
check the MAC address of each interface.
Here they are. Note that the MAC address
of each interface is nearly identical,
only the last digit is different. So, their EUI-64
interface identifiers will be very similar too.
If you want, try pausing the video here
to figure out the IPv6 address that
was generated on each interface. But let’s
check now. Here’s SHOW IPV6 INTERFACE BRIEF.
And here’s G0/0’s IPv6 address. Notice that
EUI-64 changed the C of the MAC address to an E.
And here’s the FFFE inserted in the middle of
the MAC address to make it 64 bits in length.
And here are the addresses of G0/1 and G0/2. As
I said, they are very similar, because the MAC
addresses used to generate the IPv6 addresses
were very similar too. So, to summarize,
EUI-64 allows routers to automatically generate an
IPv6 address by expanding their MAC address to a
64-bit interface ID, which is then combined
with the specified IPv6 address prefix.
Before moving on, let me briefly explain something
you might be wondering. I don’t think you need
to know this for the CCNA, but I’m sure I’ll
get some questions so let me briefly explain
why the 7th bit is inverted from 1 to 0 or 0 to
1. MAC addresses can be divided into two types.
UAAs, universally administered addresses,
which are the unique MAC addresses assigned
to the device by the manufacturer. There are
also LAAs, locally administered addresses.
These are MAC addresses which are manually
assigned by an admin or a protocol.
In Cisco IOS you can manually configure a
MAC address with the MAC-ADDRESS command on
an interface. These MAC addresses don’t have to
be globally unique. You can identify a UAA or LAA
by the 7th bit of the MAC address, which is called
the U/L bit, Universal/Local bit. If the U/L bit
is set to 0, it’s a UAA. If the U/L bit is set to
1, it’s an LAA. However, in the context of IPv6
addresses and EUI-64, the meaning of the U/L
bit is reversed. If the U/L bit is set to 0,
it means that the MAC address the EUI-64 interface
ID was made from was an LAA. If it’s set to 1,
it means that the MAC address the EUI-64
interface ID was made from was a UAA. Note
that this doesn’t actually effect the function of
the IPv6 address itself. It doesn’t mean the IPv6
address is universal or local. If you want
to know the exact reasons for this switch,
do a Google search for ‘eui-64 packetlife.net’,
there is a great explanation there. It’s fun to
get into the details, but we’re moving outside of
the scope of a CCNA course now, so let’s move on.
So, ‘EUI-64’ isn’t really a ‘type’ of IPv6
address, it’s a method of automatically
generating an IPv6 address using a
specified prefix and a MAC address.
Now let’s talk about an actual
defined type of IPv6 address.
That is the global unicast address, exam topic
1.9.a. I briefly mentioned them in Day 31.
Global unicast IPv6 addresses are public
addresses which can be used over the Internet.
We haven’t talked about public and private IPv4
addresses yet, but that will be coming up soon.
You must register to use global unicast addresses.
Because they are public addresses, it is expected
that they are globally unique. If two companies
use the same global unicast address range,
there are going to be problems, like two
homes having the exact same street address.
The range of addresses to be used for global
unicast addresses was originally defined as
2000::/3, which includes all addresses from
2000, followed by 7 quartets of 0s, through 3FFF,
followed by seven quartets of Fs. That’s a lot of
addresses, but this was later updated to include
many more addresses. Now all addresses which
aren’t reserved for other purposes are global
unicast addresses. Here’s an example of a global
unicast address which I showed you in day 31,
let’s go over it again. This blue part is the
48-bit ‘global routing prefix’, which is assigned
to the company by the ISP. The company is free to
use this /48 block of addresses however they want.
However, because IPv6 addresses usually use a /64
prefix length, that means that these remaining 16
bits in the prefix are the ‘subnet identifier’,
which can be used to make various subnets.
16 bits allows for over 65,000 subnets,
more than enough for almost any purpose.
These two parts together make
up the IPv6 network prefix.
Finally, the second half of the address,
the ‘host portion’ of the address in IPv4,
is called the ‘interface identifier’ in IPv6.
This can be generated with EUI-64 as shown before,
or manually configured however you want.
So, remember these three parts of an IPv6
global unicast address. Global routing prefix,
subnet identifier, and interface identifier.
Next up we’ll look at unique
local addresses, topic 1.9.b.
Unique local IPv6 addresses are private
addresses which cannot be used over the Internet.
These are like private IPv4 addresses. Again,
we haven’t covered them yet, but they’re coming
up soon. You do not need to register to use them.
They can be used freely within internal networks
and don’t need to be globally unique. I put
an asterisk next to that sentence because, as
you’ll see soon, you should still try to make the
addresses unique. Note that these addresses can’t
be routed over the Internet, your ISP will simply
drop packets destined for unique local addresses.
The address block FC00::/7 is reserved for unique
local addresses, however a later update requires
that the 8th bit be set to 1, so really all
unique local addresses will begin with FD.
Here’s an example of a unique local address.
Let’s break down the parts. First up, FD
simply indicates that this is a unique local
address, FD is the unique local address range.
The next 40 bits are called the ‘global ID’.
It is recommended that this part of the address
be randomly generated. Why randomly generated
and not just use something simple like all 0s?
The global ID should be unique so that
addresses don’t overlap when companies merge.
If all companies use the simple global ID of
all 0s, when two companies merge and connect
their networks they might have the same subnet
in different parts of the network, which can
cause a lot of problems. By randomly generating
this global ID, the chances of having duplicate
subnets are very low. So, even though these unique
local addresses don’t have to be globally unique,
it’s still a good idea to randomly generate the
global ID and try to make it globally unique.
Okay, the next part of the address is the subnet
identifier, just like in a global unicast address.
And these first 64 bits make up
the network prefix. Once again,
you don’t have to use a /64 prefix length, but
that’s the standard prefix length for IPv6.
Then the last 64 bits are the interface
ID, just like global unicast addresses.
Next up, link local addresses, topic 1.9.c on
the exam topics list. Link local IPv6 addresses
are automatically generated on IPv6-enabled
interfaces, as you have already seen. Note
that you can use the command IPV6 ENABLE to
enable IPv6 on an interface without actually
configuring an IPv6 address on it. It will then
automatically generate a link-local IPv6 address,
and that will be the only IPv6 address on the
interface. Link local addresses use the address
block FE80::/10. However, the standard states
that the 54 bits after FE80/10 should all be 0,
so you won’t actually see any link local addresses
beginning with FE9, FEA, or FEB. Only FE8.
Then, the interface ID is
generated using EUI-64 rules.
Here’s the same output of SHOW IPV6 INTERFACE
BRIEF that I showed you before. Notice that each
link local address uses the same interface ID as
the global unicast address we configured. That’s
because both used EUI-64 to generate the interface
ID. Link local means that these addresses are
used for communication within a single link, a
single subnet. Routers will not route packets
with a link-local destination IPv6 address, they
will not forward the packets between subnets.
So, what are some actual uses of link-local
addresses? For example, routing protocol
peerings. OSPFv3, used for IPv6, uses link-local
addresses for neighbor adjacencies, sending LSAs,
etc. They can also be used as the next-hop
address for static routes. And neighbor discovery
protocol, NDP, which is IPv6’s replacement for
ARP, uses link-local addresses to function.
I’ll talk about NDP as well as IPv6 routing in
Day 33, but let me show you a small example.
This is just an example of one use for link-local
addresses. So, PC1 in the 2001:DB8:0:1::/64
subnet wants to send this packet to PC2 in the
2001:DB8:0:2::/64 subnet. It sends the packet
to its default gateway 2001:DB8:0:1::1, which is
R1. R1 looks up the destination 2001:DB8:0:2::2
in its routing table, and the next hop is FE80::3,
so it forwards the packet to R2. R2 looks up the
destination 2001:DB8:0:2::2 in its routing table
and finds a next hop of FE80::5, so it forwards
the packet to R3. R3 looks up the destination
2001:DB8:0:2::2 in its routing table and finds
a next hop address of FE80::7, so it forwards
the packet to R4, which forwards it to PC2.
Notice that in this part of the network, the
routers only have link-local addresses. So R1, for
example, couldn’t send a ping to R3. If R1 tried
to ping R3 at FE80::5, the packet would simply
be dropped because the destination is a link-local
address, it won’t be routed. However, for next-hop
addresses these link-local addresses work just
fine, no need for any global unicast or unique
local addresses on these interfaces. Anyway, as I
said I’ll talk more about IPv6 routing in Day 33,
I just wanted to show you one
use for link-local addresses.
Next up let’s look at multicast
addresses in IPv6, which is topic 1.9.e.
For review, unicast addresses are
used for ‘one-to-one’ communication.
A unicast packet is from one source to
one destination. Broadcast addresses are
used for ‘one-to-all’ communication. From one
source to ALL destinations within the subnet.
Multicast addresses are used for ‘one-to-many’
communications. From one source to multiple
destinations, those hosts that have
joined the specific multicast group.
IPv6 uses the range FF00::/8 for multicast. In
the next slide I’ll summarize some important
multicast addresses, but let me tell you one
different thing about IPv6 compared to IPv4.
IPv6 doesn’t use broadcast. There is no
‘broadcast address’ in IPv6. But there is a way
to send a message to all hosts in the subnet using
multicast, which I’ll show you in the next slide.
Here’s a chart of some important multicast
addresses, both IPv6 and IPv4 versions.
You should know all of these multicast addresses
for the CCNA. Here’s something that might help
you remember them. Notice that the IPv4
and IPv6 versions use the same last digit.
For example, the all OSPF routers multicast
address is FF02::5 in IPv6 and 224.0.0.5 in IPv4.
The all EIGRP routers multicast address is FF02::A
in IPv6, remember hexadecimal A is 10 in decimal,
and it’s 224.0.0.10 in IPv4. Now let
me point out this multicast address,
the all nodes multicast address. You also might
hear it called the all hosts multicast address.
Basically, it functions like a broadcast, since
it’s destined for all hosts like a broadcast. So,
that’s how IPv6 can perform broadcasts, by
sending traffic to this multicast address.
Here’s another aspect of IPv6 multicast
addresses, called ‘scopes’. IPv6 defines
multiple multicast ‘scopes’ which indicate how
far the multicast packet should be forwarded.
By the way, the addresses in the previous
slide all use the ‘link-local’ scope, which
stays in the local subnet. Note that this is a
different concept than an IPv6 link-local address,
which begins with FE80. These are IPv6
multicast addresses with a link-local
scope. Here are a few of the IPv6 multicast
scopes. First up, interface-local multicast
addresses begin with FF01. These multicast
messages don’t actually leave the local device.
It can be used to send traffic to a
service running within the local device,
but the router won’t actually send traffic out
of a physical interface. You might see the term
‘node-local’ used for this scope also. Next is the
link-local scope, using FF02. As I said before,
these multicast addresses stay within the local
subnet and are not routed between subnets.
Okay, the next few scopes are a little less
simple. Interface-local and link-local are
clearly defined and don’t need any special
configuration. However, site-local multicasts,
beginning with FF05, can actually be forwarded by
routers. By definition, they should be limited to
a single physical location and not forwarded
over a WAN. However, it’s up to the network
engineer to configure the actual scope, how far
the site-local multicast will actually travel.
This is way beyond the scope of the CCNA, so
just remember the name and that site-local
multicasts begin with FF05. Same for the
next type, organization-local multicasts,
which begin with FF08. These are intended to
be wider in scope than site-local multicasts.
For example, the scope might be to all
subnets in the company or organization.
Once again, it’s up to the network engineers
to configure the boundaries of the scope.
One more scope you should be aware of is global,
using FF0E. Basically, it’s a wider scope than
organization-local, and these multicast messages
can even be routed over the public Internet.
They are defined as having ‘no boundaries’, but
that doesn’t mean a global multicast message will
actually be sent to every destination all over the
Internet. Exactly how these scopes work is beyond
the CCNA, but Cisco expects you to be aware
of these different scopes, know their names,
and know how to identify them using the
4th hexadecimal character in the address.
To help you visualize those different scopes,
here’s a diagram. From PC1’s perspective,
if it sends a link-local multicast it would
reach these devices, all on the local subnet.
A site-local multicast might reach these devices.
Wider than link-local, but not being sent over
the WAN to another of the company’s sites. An
organization-local multicast might reach these
devices, including the devices in another office
connected with a WAN link. Finally, the global
scope can reach beyond the organization itself.
Again, aside from interface-local and link-local
the actual boundaries of each scope needs
to be defined by the network engineer, and
multicast configuration is way beyond the CCNA.
So, that brief introduction to IPv6
multicast scopes should be enough for now.
Before moving on to the next address type, I
want to point out something from the output
of SHOW IPV6 INTERFACE. This is the same router
we configured the EUI-64 addresses on earlier,
and we’re looking at its G0/0 interface. Here’s
what I want to show you, ‘joined group addresses’.
These are the multicast groups that
R1 has joined on this interface.
FF02::1, which multicast address is this? It’s
the ‘all nodes’ or ‘all hosts’ multicast address,
and notice that the scope is link-local. R1’s
G0/0 is a host in the 2001:DB8::/64 subnet,
so it joins the ‘all hosts’ multicast
group in that subnet automatically.
It also joined multicast group FF02::2. What’s
that one? It’s the ‘all routers’ multicast
group. R1 is a router, so it joins this
multicast group automatically also. It
also joins this multicast group. This is
a special one, I’ll talk about this kind
of multicast address in Day 33. Now let’s
move on to the next kind of IPv6 address.
The next kind of address is anycast, which is
topic 1.9.d of the exam topics list. Anycast
is a new feature of IPv6. Anycast messaging is
‘one-to-one-of-many’. To help you understand that,
here are some helpful diagrams from Wikipedia.
The top 3 we just reviewed. Unicast at the top
is one-to-one. Broadcast is one-to-all.
Multicast is one to many, or one to multiple.
And anycast is one-to-one-of-many,
or you could say one-of-multiple.
There are multiple possible destinations, but the
traffic is only sent to one. How does that work?
Multiple routers are configured with the same
IPv6 address. They use a routing protocol
to advertise the address. So, when hosts
send packets to that destination address,
other routers will forward it to the nearest
router configured with that IP address.
‘Nearest’ refers to the smallest
routing protocol metric.
Unlike the other address types I introduced today,
there is no specified range for anycast addresses.
Use a regular unicast address, for example
a global unicast or unique local address,
and specify it as an anycast address. Here’s
an example. I configured it using /128,
which is like a /32 IPv4 address. So, if I
activate a routing protocol on this interface,
a host route to this specific address
will be advertised to other routers.
Here’s that example in the CLI. Configure it like
a regular IPv6 address and add the word ANYCAST
to the end of the command. Looking at SHOW IPV6
INTERFACE G0/0, it now has two IPv6 addresses.
On top is the EUI-64 address we configured
earlier, as indicated by EUI at the end here.
Under it is the anycast address we
just configured, indicated by ANY
at the end. Note that, even though this is
an anycast address, it is still listed under
‘global unicast addresses’ in this command,
but this ANY at the end tells us it is anycast.
To finish up, here are two other IPv6 addresses.
First up, the unspecified IPv6 address of all 0s,
usually just written as a double colon.
It can be used when a device doesn’t know
its IPv6 address yet. IPv6 default routes are
configured to ::/0, which you’ll see in Day 33.
The IPv4 equivalent of this address is 0.0.0.0.
The last IPv6 address I want to introduce is
::1, so 127 bits of 0 followed by a single 1.
This is the IPv6 loopback address. It’s used
to test the protocol stack on the local device.
Messages sent to this address are processed within
the local device, but not sent to other devices.
The IPv4 equivalent is the 127.0.0.0/8
address range. Instead of wasting a huge
block of addresses for loopbacks, IPv6 uses just
a single address, which is much more efficient.
That was a lot of information, I’m
sure you agree. Here’s what we covered.
I showed you another way of configuring IPv6
addresses, by making the router automatically
generate an interface ID using EUI-64.
We looked at some IPv6 address types.
Global unicast addresses are public IPv6 addresses
which can be routed over the Internet. Remember
the three sections of a global unicast address.
The global routing prefix, the subnet identifier,
and the interface identifier. Then we looked at
unique local addresses. No registration is needed
to use IPv6 addresses in this range. You’re free
to use them in your internal networks, but these
addresses aren’t routed over the Internet.
Next we looked at link-local IPv6 addresses.
These are automatically configured when you
enable IPv6 on an interface. You can do that
by configuring another IPv6 address such as
a global unicast address on an interface,
or you can just use the IPV6 ENABLE command on the
interface, which will enable IPv6 on the interface
and automatically configure a link-local address.
Then we looked at IPv6 multicast addresses,
including some common reserved multicast
addresses used for OSPF, RIP, and EIGRP.
We also covered the different multicast scopes.
You don’t need to understand them to a deep level,
but be familiar with the concept. We looked at a
few others, too. Specifically, Anycast addresses,
which are used to send traffic to one destination
out of multiple possible destinations.
Also, the unspecified IPv6 address which is all
0s and usually just written as a double colon,
and the IPv6 loopback address,
which is simply written as ::1.
This lesson had a lot of information, so go back
and learn each topic one by one if you need to.
If you have any questions, feel free to ask.
However, I won’t give any detailed explanations of
these topics beyond the scope of the CCNA. If you
want to go more in depth, Google is your friend!
As always, watch until the end of today’s quiz
for a bonus question from Boson ExSim for CCNA,
the best practice exams for the CCNA. Okay,
let’s move on to question 1 of today’s quiz.
R1’s G0/1 interface has a MAC address of
0D2A.4FA3.00B1. What will G0/1’s IPv6 address
be after issuing the following command?
IPV6 ADDRESS 2001:DB8:0:1::/64 EUI-64.
Here are the options. Pause the video
here to find the correct answer.
The answer is D. The 7th bit of the
MAC address has been inverted to a 1,
changing the D in the MAC address to an F.
Also, FFFE has correctly been inserted into
the middle of the MAC address to expand it
to 64 bits. Okay, let’s go to question 2.
Which portion of the IPv6
address below is the global ID?
Here are the options, the
red indicating the global ID.
So, which option is correct? Pause
the video to find the correct answer.
Okay, the correct answer is B. This
is a unique local IPv6 address.
After FD, the next 40 bits,
10 hexadecimal characters,
form the global ID. This portion of the
address should be randomly generated
so that subnets don’t overlap in the case that
two companies merge. Okay, let’s go to question 3.
R3 sent an IPv6 multicast message to
all other routers on the local subnet.
What was the destination IPv6 address of
that message? Select the best answer. A,
FF01::1. B, FF01::2. C, FF02::1. Or D, FF02::2.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
The answer is D, FF02::2. First, look
at the scope of each option. FF01,
as in A and B, is for interface-local, also
known as node-local, multicast messages.
Those won’t be sent to
devices on the local subnet.
For that, a link-local multicast message like
in C or D is used. However, FF02::1, as in C,
is a message to ALL hosts on the local subnet,
not just routers. D is the correct answer. FF02::2
is the link-local multicast address for
all routers. Okay, let’s go to question 4.
What kind of IPv6 address is automatically
configured on an interface when the following
command is used? Select the best answer. The
command is IPV6 ENABLE. A, unique local. B,
node-local. C, link-local. Or D, EUI-64.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
The answer is C, link-local. IPV6 ENABLE
enables IPv6 on the interface, and causes
a link-local address to be automatically
configured. IPv6-enabled interfaces must
have a link-local address, in addition to whatever
other IPv6 addresses you might configure on them.
In creating the link-local address the
router does use the EUI-64 process,
so some of you might have selected
D. However, that isn’t the correct
name of the type of address, so D is not
correct. Okay, let’s go to question 5.
The diagrams on the right visualize
different IPv6 message types.
Match them with the correct message type.
Here are the message types.
Unicast, broadcast, multicast, and anycast.
Pause the video to think about your answers.
Let’s check the answers. Unicast is 3. From
the source to one specific destination.
Broadcast is 2, from the source to all possible
destinations. Multicast is 4, from the source to
multiple destinations. And anycast is 1, from the
source to one of multiple possible destinations.
Okay, that’s all for the quiz. Let’s move on
to a bonus question from Boson ExSim for CCNA.
Okay, here's today's Boson ExSim practice
question. Which of the following IPv6
address prefixes are not routable? Select 2
choices. So what does that mean, not routable?
It means if a router receives a packet and the
destination is in one of these prefix ranges,
the router will not forward the
packet. It will not route the packet.
So how about A? 2000::/3. This is not one of
the correct answer because this is the global
unicast range, and global unicast addresses are
routable. How about B? FE80::/10. So, this is
one of the correct answers. This address prefix
is not routable because this is a link-local
prefix range, and link-local addresses can only
be used in the local link, the local subnet. Okay,
next C and D. These are both in the unique local
range, and unique local addresses are routable.
They cannot be routed over the public Internet,
your ISP will drop the traffic, but within
internal networks these addresses can be used
freely and they can be routed between subnets.
And then E and F. These are both multicast
addresses. You can tell by the FF at the
beginning. But look at the scope, FF05 for E. That
is site-local. And FF02 for F. That is link-local.
Site-local multicasts can be
routed outside of the local subnet,
so E is not one of the answers. However F,
link-local, is one of the correct answers.
Much like the link-local address,
the link-local scope of a multicast
address also is not routable outside of
the local subnet, the local link. Okay,
so let's see if my answers are correct. Down here
I will click on show answer, and they are correct.
So, I will scroll down. And you can pause
here if you want to read Boson's explanation.
And there's more down here.
So, as you can see the explanation is quite
detailed, quite lengthy. These explanations
are really one of the great things about Boson
ExSim. So I highly recommend, after taking one
of the practice exams in Boson ExSim, read the
explanations for every single question. Both the
ones you get right and the wrongs you get wrong.
It will really help you deepen your understanding
of the topics and feel comfortable when you take
the real exam. Okay, so that's Boson ExSim for
CCNA. If you want to get Boson ExSim for yourself,
follow the link in the video description.
There are supplementary materials for this video.
There is a flashcard deck to use with the software
‘Anki’. Note that I have added the tag ‘ipv6’ to
all flashcards for this video and Day 31’s video,
so you can use Anki to specifically review
the IPv6 cards if you feel it is necessary.
There was a lot to memorize in this video, so
I think the flashcards will be very helpful.
There will also be a packet tracer practice
lab so you can get some hands-on practice.
That will be in the next video. Sign up for my
mailing list via the link in the description,
and I’ll send you all of the flashcards
and packet tracer lab files for the course.
Before finishing today’s video I want
to thank my JCNP-level channel members.
To join, please click the
‘Join’ button under the video.
Thank you to Brandon, Magrathea, Njabulo,
Benjamin, Deepak, Tshepiso, Justin, Nil, Prakaash,
Nasir, Erlison, Apogee, Wasseem, Marko, Florian,
Daming, Kone, Joshua, Jhilmar, Samil, Ed, Value,
John, Funnydart, Scott, Hassan, Gerrard, Marek,
Velvijaykum, C Mohd, Johan, Mark, Yousif, Sidi,
Boson Software, Charlesetta, Devin, Lito,
Yonatan, and Vance. Sorry if I pronounced
your name incorrectly, but thank you so much for
your support. One of you is still displaying as
Channel failed to load, if this is you please
let me know and I’ll see if YouTube can fix it.
This is the list of JCNP-level members at the
time of recording by the way, October 19th 2020,
if you signed up recently and your name isn’t
on here don’t worry, you’ll be in future videos.
Thank you for watching. Please
subscribe to the channel,
like the video, leave a comment, and share the
video with anyone else studying for the CCNA.
If you want to leave a tip, check the links in the
description. I'm also a Brave verified publisher
and accept BAT, or Basic Attention Token, tips
via the Brave browser. That's all for now.